hello and welcome to movies in five
minutes or less
this is a recap of the 2020 drama movie
the way back
starring ben affleck
warning spoilers ahead
jack cunningham is a divorced alcoholic
iron
his sister beth informs him that they
are concerned about his drinking habits
and isolation from friends and family as
they are eating thanksgiving dinner
the next day jack gets a call from
father devine a former catholic high
school basketball player at bishop hayes
where he was a star
devine invites him to fill in for the
school's basketball coach who has had a
heart attack
dan the assistant coach and algebra
teacher as well as the squad members are
presented to jack he discovers that
bishop hayes hasn't made the playoffs
since he was a student and that student
enthusiasm has dwindled to the point
that the team is down to only six
varsity players
brandon the team's introverted point
guard and most gifted player and marcus
the team center who irritates the squad
with his attitude are two of these guys
in jack's first game as coach the team
takes on memorial a larger school with a
much more talented team
with the team trailing by a large margin
and frustrated by what he perceives as a
lack of effort jack puts marcus on the
bench and demands that the team play
with more toughness
despite this bishop hayes suffers a
humiliating defeat
jack runs into brandon walking alone
after a game one night and offers him a
ride home
brandon reveals that his mother has
passed away and that his father is
unable to attend his games due to his
responsibilities as a father to his two
brothers
to compensate for the team's relative
lack of size and talent jack implements
strategic changes to the team including
a full-court press defense and a focus
on conditioning
the stricter practices and jack's
aggressive attitude irritate the team at
first but they soon come to respect him
marcus is kicked off the team when he
arrives late for the next game
as a result of jack's changes the game
is a close one that bishop hayes
eventually wins
brandon is eventually named team captain
marcus later shows up at jack's house
unannounced to ask to rejoin the team
and jack eventually agrees
the team keeps winning and jack begins
to form bonds with his teammates
he begins to spend more time with his
family and friends as his drinking
decreases
jack and his ex-wife angela go to their
friend miguel's son david's birthday
party
the fact that jack and angela had a son
named michael who died of cancer is
revealed
david and michael were both in the
hospital at the same time and david is
now cancer-free
jack is ejected from a game after
protesting a call causing bishop hayes
to lose
while driving home jack tells brandon
that his father was a slacker who only
cared about him when his basketball
talent was discovered as a result jack
declined a full athletic scholarship to
the university of kansas basketball
program and has not played basketball
since
brandon's father russ is visited at work
by jack who informs him that brandon has
attracted the attention of college
recruiters
russ a former college basketball player
has discouraged his son from pursuing
success through basketball it's a
rematch with memorial in their final
game of the season
following a slow start bishop hayes
manages to mount a comeback culminating
in brandon making the game-winning shot
later jack receives a call from angela
informing him that david has been
admitted to the hospital
jack and angela overhear a doctor
telling david's parents that his cancer
has returned while they are visiting
the sight of their anguish disturbs jack
who leaves the hospital and immediately
returns to drinking
the next morning jack shows up late and
drunk to practice
father devine fires jack saying he can't
trust him with the team and fears he has
a serious problem
jack rear ends a boat hitch to a parked
car one night while driving drunk with a
woman he met at a bar
the woman flees telling jack to enter
through the back door but jack enters
the wrong house and is confronted by its
occupants
jack tries to flee before the cops
arrive but the argument turns physical
and he is pushed down the front steps of
the house and knocked unconscious
when jack wakes up in the hospital he is
greeted by beth who insists that he seek
treatment for his alcoholism
jack starts going to therapy and begins
to talk about his son's death
he meets with angela and expresses
regret for his previous errors
brandon notices that his father and
brothers are in attendance as the bishop
hayes team dedicates their first playoff
game to jack
meanwhile jack picks up a basketball and
practices his shooting on an outdoor
court
thanks for watching movies in five
minutes or less
don't forget to subscribe to our channel
till next time